Visual Odometry(VO)

In navigation, odometry is the use of data from the movement of actuators to estimate change in position over time through devices such as rotary encoders to measure wheel rotations. While useful for many wheeled or tracked vehicles, traditional odometry techniques cannot be applied to mobile robots with non-standard locomotion methods, such as legged robots. In addition, odometry universally suffers from precision problems, since wheels tend to slip and slide on the floor creating a non-uniform distance traveled as compared to the wheel rotations. The error is compounded when the vehicle operates on non-smooth surfaces. Odometry readings become increasingly unreliable as these errors accumulate and compound over time.

Visual odometry is the process of determining equivalent odometry information using sequential camera images to estimate the distance traveled. Visual odometry allows for enhanced navigational accuracy in robots or vehicles using any type of locomotion on any[citation needed] surface.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Types
There are various types of VO.

1.MONOCULAR AND STEREO
Depending on the camera setup, VO can be categorized as Monocular VO (single camera), Stereo VO (two camera in stereo setup).


VIO is widely used in commercial quadcopters, which provide localization in GPS denied situations

2.FEATURE-BASED AND DIRECT METHOD
Traditional VO's visual information is obtained by the feature-based method, which extracts the image feature points and tracks them in the image sequence. Recent developments in VO research provided an alternative, called the direct method, which uses pixel intensity in the image sequence directly as visual input. There are also hybrid methods.

3.VISUAL INERTIAL ODOMETRY
If an inertial measurement unit (IMU) is used within the VO system, it is commonly referred to as Visual Inertial Odometry (VIO)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ALGORITHM
Most existing approaches to visual odometry are based on the following stages.

Acquire input images: using either single cameras.,[2][3] stereo cameras,[3][4] or omnidirectional cameras.

Image correction: apply image processing techniques for lens distortion removal, etc.
Feature detection: define interest operators, and match features across frames and construct optical flow field.
Use correlation to establish correspondence of two images, and no long term feature tracking.
Feature extraction and correlation.
Construct optical flow field (Lucas–Kanade method).
Check flow field vectors for potential tracking errors and remove outliers.
Estimation of the camera motion from the optical flow

Choice 1: Kalman filter for state estimate distribution maintenance.

Choice 2: find the geometric and 3D properties of the features that minimize a cost function based on the re-projection error between two adjacent images. This can be done by mathematical minimization or random sampling.

Periodic repopulation of trackpoints to maintain coverage across the image.
An alternative to feature-based methods is the "direct" or appearance-based visual odometry technique which minimizes an error directly in sensor space and subsequently avoids feature matching and extraction.[4][12][13]

Another method, coined 'visiodometry' estimates the planar roto-translations between images using Phase correlation instead of extracting features.[14][15]
